The number of planets depends on what you mean by "planets".

If you're just referring to our own solar system, then there are eight planets:

    Mercury:   The smallest and closest planet to the sun.

It's a rocky world with craters and no atmosphere.

[Image of Mercury planet]
    Venus:   The hottest planet in our solar system, with temperatures hot enough to melt lead.

It's also covered in thick clouds that trap heat.

[Image of Venus planet]
    Earth:   Our home planet, the only one known to support life.

It has a thin atmosphere, liquid water, and diverse forms of life.

[Image of Earth planet]
    Mars:   The Red Planet, a cold, dry world with a thin atmosphere.

It has polar ice caps and canyons that are deeper than the Grand Canyon.

[Image of Mars planet]
    Jupiter:   The largest planet in our solar system, a gas giant with a thick atmosphere made up mostly of hydrogen and helium.

It has a Great Red Spot, a giant storm that has been raging for centuries.

[Image of Jupiter planet]
    Saturn:   The second-largest planet in our solar system, known for its beautiful rings made up of ice and dust.

It has many moons, including Titan, the only moon in our solar system with lakes and rivers.

[Image of Saturn planet]
    Uranus:   An ice giant tilted on its side, with a blue-green atmosphere made up mostly of hydrogen and helium.

It has many moons, including Miranda, which has strange, grooved terrain.

[Image of Uranus planet]
    Neptune:   The farthest planet from the sun, an ice giant with a dark blue atmosphere made up mostly of hydrogen and helium.

It has many moons, including Triton, which has geysers of ice and nitrogen.

[Image of Neptune planet]

But if you're including dwarf planets, then there are more than just eight!

Pluto, for example, was once considered a planet but was reclassified as a dwarf planet in 2006.

There are also other dwarf planets like Ceres, Eris, Haumea, and Makemake.

And if you're talking about all the planets in the entire universe, then we have no idea how many there are!

Astronomers have discovered thousands of exoplanets, planets that orbit stars other than our sun.

But there are probably billions, or even trillions, more planets out there that we haven't found yet.



